add core dev 2023-09 (#276)
bitcointranscripts/bitcointranscripts: bitcoin-core-dev-tech/2023-09/signature-aggregation.md

Can target a certain security level by increasing group size, e.g. 512 bit group bight give 128 bit security.

In practice world accepted that these loss factors are a side-effect of the proof, and not real. And that it actually is hard to break Schnorr signatures.

There is an alt proof with different assumptions re. group size and hash size (the two params). The first one says we have a ^2 one for the group, but this one says use bigger hashes and make the group a bit smaller. Does this point to a lack of a fully-sensible proof? Using random-oracle stuff you might not get a tight proof.

If you don't assume special things about the group, idealised assumptions, you have a loss of that square property. Someone has proved that there is no better proof. This doesn't imply it's insecure, but there is no better proof. In MuSig 1 paper there was a ^4 root loss. Similar here for half agg; there is a fork per signature, so there is a loss factor which is 2^n where n is number of transactions. So with 7 tx it only proves that signature is 1 bit secure.

> There is no perfect security proof, but in practice that is often tollerated/acceptable. But for half agg, since it's new, makes sense to be cautious.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is no perfect security proof, but in practice that is often tolerated/acceptable. But for half agg, since it's new, makes sense to be cautious.
```

Today we can do broken things in consensus, but it's not whether consensus allows, but whether it's safe. If there are many things encumbered by a scheme that is now insecure, that becomes a problem.

How can MuSig be insecure? Perhaps only from your co-signers. But with half-agg, if this is in consensus and turns out to be broken, then I might be able to spend your coins with a half agg sig, which would be extra bad. Very different level of failure to MuSig turning out insecure.

Half agg needs a much more invasive consensus change than taproot; where instead of True become x, but half agg needs a tx-level something?

Is a stronger proof a requirement to introduce to bitcoin? Some say no. ECDSA was picked before a security proof existed! :P There is a proof but the theoretical-loss is so large that is “appears” broken. There is a “tight” proof (little loss) in a stronger model, but the question is do we accept this. Community must decide…

Is a security proof required for a proposed consensus change?

With full CISA, a problem with a new script version, similar to g'root

> separate sigs from scripting - does this also apply to half agg? Yes. Need to be unambiguos about which sigs are aggregated. Imagine a new tapscript, V2 (simplicity?), an old verified will not be able to see those signautres, not recognise them as signatures, need two seperate algos; one for pre-fork, and one for the upgraded nodes. NOt hard, but must be careful in designing as e.g. OP_CHECKSIG/OP_SUCCESS could break? ONe thing you could do is say CISA only applys to key-path spend. Doenside is that this needs a new witness version. But it is the most impactful as we expect most signatures to be key-path spends. Not aggregating keys in the script side removes many problems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
separate sigs from scripting - does this also apply to half agg? Yes. Need to be unambiguous about which sigs are aggregated. Imagine a new tapscript, V2 (simplicity?), an old verified will not be able to see those signatures, not recognise them as signatures, need two separate algos; one for pre-fork, and one for the upgraded nodes. Not hard, but must be careful in designing as e.g. OP_CHECKSIG/OP_SUCCESS could break? One thing you could do is say CISA only applies to key-path spend. Downside is that this needs a new witness version. But it is the most impactful as we expect most signatures to be key-path spends. Not aggregating keys in the script side removes many problems.
```
